a wet dual clutch with dual mass
flywheel is used for setting off and
shifting off dual clutch transmissions
the functionality of the dual mass
flywheel by sucks ensures excellent
decoupling of the drive line here the
dual clutch supplements the secondary
mass
the dual clutch is made up by two
clutches the external one is responsible
for the odd and the internal one for the
even gears both multi-disc packages of
the dual clutch can be closed
independently by a hydraulic piston
pressure a normally open clutch is used
thanks to the oil cooling the wet dual
clutches feature a high thermal load
capacity and aware free
during the gear change the engine torque
is continuously transferred from one
clutch to the other
thus the tractive force is not
interrupted and shifting is performed
dynamically and free from shocks and
jerks just within hundreds of seconds
a separate pump is used for hydraulic
actuation of the clutches that governs
and controls the pressure in the
actuation system in connection with a
control unit and the corresponding
valves the required clutch oil cooling
process is implemented similarily as for
pressure oil and the respective
actuation via the oil feeder and the
corresponding turning duct the load
dependent control of the cooling oil
volume flow up of 0 up to larger than 25
rpm minimizes the power losses of the
system which is highly critical for the
reduction of fuel consumption
the overall system made up by vibration
damping starting and shift element
control unit and the dual clutch
transmission itself enables optimum
design with reference to the respective
vehicle concept namely installations
space-saving powerful and economic
sporty and comfortable